# SwEnt M1 Team Grading Report

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.


## Blue Belt

You qualified for a Blue Belt 🥋🔵 and got a final grade of 5.2/6 for M1. Excellent work! You're demonstrating advanced skills. 

We looked at several aspects, grouped into five categories. Here is the breakdown of the points you earned:

| Metric                          | **Points Earned**              | **Weight** | **Feedback**                              |
|---------------------------------|--------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **Implementation (APK, CI, tests)** | 5.5 out of 6 | 40%        | [See Details](#implementation-apk-ci-tests) |
| **Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog** | 4.75 out of 6      | 20%        | [See Details](#sprint-backlog--product-backlog) |
| **Figma**                       | 5.5 out of 6       | 15%        | [See Details](#figma)                     |
| **Architecture**                | 4.5 out of 6 | 15%       | [See Details](#architecture)               |
| **Scrum process documents**     | 5.5 out of 6       | 10%        | [See Details](#scrum-process-documents)    |
| **Final Grade**                 | **5.2 out of 6**    |            |                                           |


In addition to the feedback you received from the coaches during the Sprints, you will find some extra feedback below.

## Implementation (APK, CI, tests)

We looked at whether your APK is functional and reliable. We also assessed your repo setup, whether it is clearly organized and if there is a CI running Sonar Cloud and running tests including at least one meaningful end-to-end test.

APK is highly reliable and user experience is seemless.
- Sonar is correctly integrated in the repo
- The tests are run by the CI
- There is at least one meaningful end-to-end test
- The line coverage on M1 code is 95,9
Some clear standard for the PR and PR review quality have been established in the wiki, however it seems like not everyone is following them, so try to either modify them, or ensure that the whole team sticks to it. For the commit, the standard are also well defined and seems to be respected by the whole team. Keep up the good work!

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Sprint Backlog & Product Backlog

We assessed the structure and clarity of your Sprint and Product Backlogs and how you used them.
We looked at whether your tasks are well defined, appropriately sized, and aligned with user stories; whether the Product Backlog is well organized and value-driven; and whether the Sprint Backlog is continuously updated and demonstrates good planning and prioritization.

You should separate the Done column to have one for each sprint, this way it is easier to keep track of the progress (have columns 'Done in Sprint x' instead of just the 'Done' column). The Sprint backlog for the sprint 3 is well completed, the tasks are assigned to team members and they have a time estimate, well done!

The product backlog is populated with a lot of user stories, well done! In the future you should move your user stories to the corresponding 'Done in Sprint x' column to keep track of what was yet implemented in terms of user requirements.

For this part, you received 4.75 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Figma

We evaluated your Figma, whether it is up-to-date with the app and how it is used as a communication, planning and design tool to accelerate the implementation of good UI.

The Figma is really complete and is ahead of the application, well done! You could improve even further by having a working simulation of how the application should work (by showing the effect of using a given button, ...)

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Architecture

We reviewed your project’s architecture diagram, whether it is up-to-date with the app and if it follows clean design principles. We also looked at how it is used to discuss and document the architecture of the app as the app evolves.

The architecture diagram is up to date with the application, you could improve it further by detailing a bit more the Domain Layer, but other than that it provides a clear overview of the application structure.

For this part, you received 4.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Scrum Process Documents

We reviewed your Scrum process documentation, including Sprint Retrospectives and Team Standup. We assessed whether they documented the process in detail, and how they were used to prepare the meetings. We also looked at your ability to lead structured and effective meetings, with everyone's participation.

The two weekly stand up meeting are carefully documented, well done! The team retrospective are thoughful and contribute to improving the process of the team, well done!

During the meetings with the coaches, the team is proactive and is starting to take the lead, keep up the good work! To improve even further you could encourage conversation about the direction you want your application to take. It is always interesting when you have ideas, to discuss them with the rest of the group and to take advantage of having your coaches present so that they can also give you some feedback!

For this part, you received 5.5 points out of a maximum of 6.

## Summary

Your team grade for milestone M1 is 5.2. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!



